---
ID: 221
post_title: >
  How To Focus And Churn Through Tasks
  Faster
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/focus/
published: true
post_date: 2013-12-04 20:10:45
---
You have a million tasks to get through. Many of them high priority, many of them not. Some of them quick and easy, others are most definitely not. You sit and ask yourself “Where the hell do I start?”.

So you pick a task, and start working on it. After a number of minutes, an email comes into your inbox. You have a look at it, and start working on that email. As you’re working on this new email, you have a thought about something else, and open up your browser to investigate further. You carry on like this for a while and before you know it, it’s been a couple of hours, you've been busy, but <em>none</em> of the tasks you started have been completed.

Does this sound familiar? It should. Most of us work this way every single day. We work work work, but don’t actually get anywhere. There is a way to work smarter, not harder. A way to start - <em>and complete</em> - tasks like a machine.

And that is by using focus periods to complete tasks.

In it’s simplest form, these focus periods are chunks of time that you set aside to <em>complete</em> a task, or set of tasks, that you have prioritised to be completed. You focus on the task, and only that task. No reading of email, no going off on a tangent when your thoughts wonder. Only. The. Task. At. Hand.

I recently discovered this method through my research for more effective productivity, and came across the <a href="http://pomodorotechnique.com/">Pomodoro Technique</a> as well as a few similar concepts. The Pomodoro Technique is comprised of strict 25 minute sessions (or pomodoros), 5 minute breaks in between, and a 20 minute break every fourth pomodoro. However, in my daily schedule, this simply does not work. In turn, the method I use is a hybrid of the Pomodoro Technique, whereby I've adjusted the lengths of the focus periods slightly.

I personally find 25 minutes per focus period is just too short to accomplish any decent tasks. In turn, I use 35 minute chunks. I’m also not as strict on the breaks, as there isn’t a long enough period where I’m at my desk for a given length of time - either through meetings or assisting my team.

In summary, this is how I churn through my tasks. I’ve found a huge increase in my productivity since using this method. And I sure hope you can too.

<ol>
<li>Specify a task, or tasks, you wish to complete in the focus period.</li>
<li>Start the timer. </li>
<li>Complete the tasks. </li>
<li><em>Don’t get distracted by thoughts or emails</em> </li>
<li><em>NO DISTRACTIONS</em> </li>
<li>Have a 5 minute break after the timer has ended. </li>
<li>Repeat as necessary.</li>
</ol>

<em>TIP: A handy little application that I use for timing the focus periods is <a href="http://focusboosterapp.com/">Focus Booster</a>.</em>

<em>[image source: Dart by Asif Akbar]</em>