---
ID: 241
post_title: 2013, The Year in Review
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/2013review/
published: true
post_date: 2013-12-18 19:36:48
---
Where do I start to try and sum up this year? Although nothing too extraordinary happened, a lot still happened. We settled in to our new house, my wife had her hair shaved in support of cancer, we learnt a lot about gardening, we got a cat.

I embarked on an amazing journey of self-discovery. A journey in which inspiration, leadership, communication, and passion have made their way into my life. My life changed when I was provided an opportunity to go on an Outward Bound course. That course compounded what I had already been discovering through the year, and in turn provided me with clarity and focus on what my priorities are, and where I want to go.

Finances have been tough this year. The house took its toll on the bank balance. First with the actual buying of the house, then with all the maintenance that occurred through the year. Maintenance that didn't need to be there if the previous owners had simply got the job done properly. We did, however, manage to paint the kitchen area, and it looks amazing.

My wonderful wife, Lisa, getting her hair shaved in support of child cancer was brave and inspiring. I am so proud of her. It is the first time we've done something along those lines. It feels good to have done something in support of a good cause. She was extremely brave, and I feel she was the envy of her friends.

This year I discovered the true power of Twitter. I've had an account for years, but never tweeted. I thought it was just a place where people shouted about brushing their teeth, or when they were going to the toilet. <em>Man, was I so wrong</em>. It is so much more. Twitter is a communal hotspot to find likeminded people. To gain inspiration from others. Or simply just to socialise and build relationships of people <em>around the world</em>.

Lisa and I continue to fall further in love with our adopted country, in particular the city we live in - Wellington. We continue to discover new places and small joys that drive home the reason as to why we chose New Zealand as the place we want to be. I find myself becoming more loyal and patriotic to New Zealand than I ever was for South Africa (as controversial as it may seem to my South African friends and family).

A few hiccups here and there, but overall it’s been good. Another year in which the foundation was made stronger for when things start turning out for the better for our little family. 2014 will be that year. I feel it in my bones.