---
ID: 402
post_title: 'The 3 Worst Pieces of Advice I&#8217;ve Received About &#8216;Focus&#8217;'
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/nofocus/
published: true
post_date: 2014-02-26 20:01:06
---
During my journey of learning how to be more productive and efficient, I have come across many websites containing some excellent advice, as well as colleagues having also given excellent tips. There are, however, many times where the advice has simply been awful, quirky, or downright stupid. Here are my top 3 worst pieces of advice I received on focus.

<h2>1&#46; Keep a cluttered workspace</h2>

<em>’A workspace, cluttered or not, does not affect focus.’</em>

I laughed when I saw that statement. Clutter creates tension, anxiety, and a sense of non-clarity. You might be working on your desktop or laptop, not requiring anything from your actual workspace, but humans have this thing called peripheral vision.

We see our piles of papers strewn across our desk, the post-it notes, the coffee cups (and probably coffee stains too). These all form a picture in your sub-conscious that simply does not conform to applying focus when you need it.

<h2>2&#46; Remove all distractions</h2>

<em>’Close all other applications (including email), move to a quiet spot, put on noise cancelling headphones.</em>

In today’s world of being constantly up to date and available, it is not feasible to disconnect from everything.It may be possible when you are by yourself at home, but at the office it is a different story. In an open plan work area, with a job that requires you to monitor emails or alerts, it is not conducive to remove all distractions.

We cannot close our email applications. We cannot put on our headphones. We certainly cannot disappear for hours on end to ‘focus’.

I say <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/distraction">work with these distractions</a>.

<h2>3&#46; Focus for long periods of time</h2>

<em>’Knuckle down, sit tight, and go for as long as you can, until you have completed your task.</em>

No, that’s not how it works. The basic understanding is that humans focus best for small periods of time, with small breaks in between. The optimum time for any given period of work being between 90-120 minutes.

You can always try the <a href="http://pomodorotechnique.com/">Pomodoro</a> technique, or the <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/focus">hack job</a> that I work with every day.

<h2>My advice: Do what’s right for you</h2>

At the end of the day, there are <em>so many</em> techniques and suggestions on how you can work best. So many people promising they have the one-size-fits-all technique that will turn you into a productive ninja – focusing and judo-chopping through your tasks all day and all night.

But the truth is, there is no single solution. We are all different, and in turn, work differently. You have to find what works for you. This will probably be a hybrid of what you have found online, read in books, or seen your colleagues do.

Putting a piecemeal technique together, from experience and research, is how I got to where I am today. My colleagues often comment on how productive I am, but there is no secret to my methods. All I have done is learn from <em>them</em> and integrate it into my way of working.

I have read, watched, learned, and adapted my working style to suit me. This has meant that I can achieve a lot more in any given day. Not superhuman typing, not delegation, or even super speed (as some people might think). Just simple, effective management of my emails, prioritisation, and focus of the tasks demanding my attention.

<em>[image source: <a href="http://unsplash.com/post/61559883663/download-by-zugr">Alex Trukhin</a> - <a href="http://creativecommons.org/about/cc0">cc0</a>]</em>