---
ID: 384
post_title: Take Action
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/action/
published: true
post_date: 2014-02-19 20:01:28
---
Stop complaining. Stop moaning. Stop blaming. None of these things have ever changed you, me, or the world. All they ever achieved was negativity and anger. There is only one thing that will change this world - no, it is not that hippy ‘love’ stuff.

<blockquote>
  Successful people do not complain about the things they have the ability to change, they simply change them.
</blockquote>

When we are unhappy with a situation, it usually ends up with some bitching and moaning. We complain about how it makes us feel. We blame somebody or something for causing it. And we expect it to magically rectify itself so that we can get what we want.

That is not going to happen any time soon. Nothing will change until someone takes <em>action</em>.

<blockquote>
  Nothing changes if nothing changes.
</blockquote>

For example, you could complain to customer service about your defect product. You could moan to your girlfriends (or boyfriends) about your useless partner. You could bemoan where you are in life now.

<strong>None of it will change without action.</strong>

You won’t get a refund without customer service taking <em>action</em>. Your relationship won’t change until you take <em>action</em>. You won’t get anywhere in life until you take <em>action</em>.

<blockquote>
  If you don’t ask, the answer is always no. If you don’t step forward, you’re always in the same place. - Nora Roberts
</blockquote>

You alone have the power to get yourself to a point where you are happy. It is tough. It takes guts. But if you want the product, relationship, or life you deserve, you need to fight for it. It isn’t going to be handed to you on a silver platter.

If customer service is not taking action, escalate up the management chain. If you can’t get through to your partner, dump him to the curb (and that’s what he deserves if he doesn’t want to understand you). Try something new in your life, take a step, challenge yourself.

I've already taken up too much of your time. Stop reading this now, and <em>take action</em>.

<blockquote>
  Action may not always bring happiness; but there is no happiness without action. - Benjamin Disraeli
</blockquote>

<em>[image: Flickr user <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/piermario/3365904205/">Piermario</a>]</em>