---
ID: 541
post_title: What Is Your Next Step?
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/step/
published: true
post_date: 2014-05-14 20:11:26
---
You have been sitting in the same job for a few years, you know the tricks of the trade, you are the grandmaster. What next? Where can you go from here? What is the next step? <em>Is there even a next step?</em>

<blockquote>
  Let him that would move the world first move himself. - Socrates
</blockquote>

<h2>Review your success</h2>

I am frustrated at the moment. I have a feeling that I am falling behind, not yet achieving what I am meant to be. I feel I should be working harder, constantly trying new things, pushing the limit to achieve the next level of success – whether it be at the office, or with my writing. I’m working hard, tapping away at the keyboard, or leading my team. Always striving to reach the next step, but never quite reaching it.

But then I look back over the past few months, review what I have achieved, and I realise that I have, indeed, been reaching that next step. The fault has been mine in that when I reach the next step, I’m already looking at the one after that.

I believe this is essential in achieving your purpose. Always looking to the next step – always moving, always improving.

<h2>Move forward</h2>

In order to attain our version of success, we must have a ‘next step’. That next step can be anything, as long as it’s something to work towards. Authors want more readers, minimalists want less stuff, or spiritualists want to be more content. They are successful at achieving these goals if they are continuously working towards the next step, the next level in achieving their vision.

If you are where you have always wanted to be, then kudos to you. But life is always changing, you are continuously evolving. On the other hand, what if you are not where you want to be. You are stuck in a rut, and don’t quite know where to go from here. That is actually the easier position to be in. In my experience, it’s easier to work towards getting to the top, than it is to stay at the top. How will you do this, though?

<blockquote>
  All mankind is divided into three classes: those that are immovable, those that are movable, and those that move. - Benjamin Franklin
</blockquote>

Don’t stop moving. Move in any direction, do anything that matters (that fits your goal). What is essential to keep in mind is to <em>learn</em>, <em>adapt</em>, and <em>improve</em>. Achieve one thing, and move on to the next.

<h2>Don't follow your passion</h2>

The theme of today’s self-help media and content is ‘find your passion!’, ‘do what you love!’, or ’you can do whatever you want to do!’. That doesn’t really work in the real world. We still need to pay the bills, eat food, and have a roof to sleep under. Simply ‘doing what we love’ gets us nowhere (my passion for watching T.V., for example).

My take on these messages is to rather find something that you enjoy doing. You enjoy it enough to work with it every day. Focus on that, learn more about it, and <a href="http://browntel.net/action/">take action</a>. Make bold decisions (any decision is a bold decision) to get it out there for people to notice. Whatever it is, it is <em>you</em>.

I get up every morning thinking about a positive impact I can make on my small area of the world. I may write about this passion, I enjoy writing about it, but writing certainly isn’t my passion – it is the action I’m taking to make my impact. The writing is the means of implementing my passion.

<h2>Grow confident</h2>

As you become more confident, take it to the next level, and ask yourself ‘What is the next Step?’, ‘what should I be doing in order to make this bigger, or maintain where I am now?’.

My own next step is to continue focusing this blog on the self-improvement and self-growth path, as well as gain further exposure through guest posts and building strong relationships with good people such as you.

Have a think about your next step and work towards it. Any big steps you want to share?

<em>[Featured image: <a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/wesleypeyton/8358326124">Wesley Eller</a>]</em>