---
ID: 465
post_title: Do one thing today
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/onething/
published: true
post_date: 2014-04-02 20:01:33
---
When you wake up in the morning, once the grogginess of sleep has left you, there is a thought that appears in your mind. A thought of something that you would love to achieve that day. One thing that you’re excited about and will make your day feel like an achievement. It could be painting a picture, tinkering with the bike engine in the garage, adding a feature to your website, or even washing the car.

But then the day begins. We get bogged down by tasks that <em>have</em> to be completed, or emergencies that <em>must</em> be dealt with now. The children demand food and attention, the boss wants his report by tomorrow, or we need to buy bread on the way home.

And as we lie in bed that night, we commiserate that we never did that one thing we really wanted to do. We lambast ourselves for not being good enough, we bemoan that life is tough, and that it sucks not having the chance to do the things we want to. Why does life have to get in the way?

<h2>Think</h2>

Life will always get in the way. It will never cease to hamper our plans, throw curve balls in our direction, and crush our aspirations. We cannot let ‘life’ run our lives (ironic, I know). We have to be smart about it, devious even. We cannot wait for life to make time for us, we have to make our own time, shove a wedge in there to create space in order for us to do the things we want to do.

The only way we will be able to achieve that is to change the way we think and the way we go through our day.

<h2>Make time</h2>

When you wake up the next morning, and you think of that one thing you want to do, make it your purpose of the day to actually do it. Find the time inbetween the children and the boss’s report. Squeeze just that little bit of extra time to do what you want to do.

It’s hard, there will be sacrifices you will need to make, but you need to do it for you. I know you want to help everyone, making sure they are all tucked in to bed at night, but it is all no use if you can’t look after you. If you’re burned out, angry, and depressed, nobody will be able to benefit from your compassion.

<h2>Do it</h2>

So, instead of doing the umpteenth thing that absolutely has to be done today, scrap it and do one thing that <em>you</em> want to do. You don’t even have to complete it, but if you worked on it, you will get excited, elated, and feel that you’ve done something <em>you wanted</em> to do. Life won’t feel so bad, and you will have confidence when you get up the next morning. Confidence that will be vital to tackle the hardships of the next day, but remember...

<strong>Do one thing you want to do.</strong>

<em>[Featured image: <a href="http://unsplash.com/post/56830639562/download-by-alexander-shustov">Alexander Shustov</a>]</em>