---
ID: 508
post_title: Have the Audacity to Ask
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/ask/
published: true
post_date: 2014-05-01 07:58:51
---
While looking for a new webhost, I came across a site that had a few mistakes on it. I had an idea about asking if the owner would consider exchanging my editing services for hosting services. I thought it was preposterous and arrogant. But you know what happened? He accepted.

This got me thinking about other times we don't get what we want (or anything at all) because we don't ask. We are afraid of rejection, accusation, or the perception that we are arrogant.

When you have an idea that you feel will benefit both parties, why not go ahead and ask? So what if someone rejects you? You are no worse than where you started - and at least you know where you stand. You will know for sure that this path is closed to you for now. But as the old saying goes, 'if one door closes, another opens'. This couldn't be more true.

Think about those times where you have wanted to ask for something. Maybe it was a pay increase, or someone to look after your children so you could have a break, or even a discount at the furniture store. When I think about those times in my own life, I realise now what would’ve happened if I had simply asked...

Nothing.

The recipients of my question would simply have said ‘no’, and we would have carried on with our day. <em>Or</em>, they could have said ‘yes’, and a different outcome could have occurred.

Sometimes I get irritated and despondent with people that <em>always</em> seem to get the good deals, or <em>always</em> seem to have opportunities fall into their lap. I look on as they stroll away with not a care in the world, while I sit here sweating away trying to do what's best for me and my family. How do these people get their opportunities? Why do good things always seem to come by there people?

They ask.

They don't accept what they have, they see an opportunity, they say yes. They ask about a discount, or an exchange deal. They work smarter to get the best out of a deal or situation. That is what you and I need to do too. We need to take that bold step to ask for something we feel we deserve.

So next time you have an idea, ask the question. Challenge yourself, <em>ask</em>, and you might just be surprised by the answer.