---
ID: 658
post_title: 'You Shouldn&#8217;t Be Ashamed To Share Your Dreams'
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/shame/
published: true
post_date: 2014-07-16 20:01:32
---
One of my team members was sharing their dream for the next few years. While they were describing it, they mentioned ‘You can burst my bubble any time’. This immediately struck a chord with me. Why should people have to burst your bubble? What right do they have to tell you what you can achieve?

If you want to be a superstar professional, creator, or even a magician, don’t be ashamed or embarrassed to tell people about it. If they want to put your dreams down, that is their problem.

<blockquote>
  ”If people are trying to bring you down, it only means that you are above them.”
</blockquote>

I have had a massive motivational move over the past year. I have aspirations about where I want to be in one year, three years, and even five years from now. When I first started dreaming big, I was embarrassed to share that dream with anybody but my wife. For some reason, it felt like I was being obnoxious and arrogant for thinking I could achieve these things.

However, the more I <em>act</em> on my dreams, I am finding them more achievable. I get more confident in sharing my dreams, and firmly believe that you (yes, you dear reader) <em>can achieve anything you dream of</em>.

Sharing your dream with someone has another benefit – and that is accountability. When you share your dream with someone else, you are giving yourself a date of achieving something, as well as someone who can hold you to it. Rather than you simply dreaming about it, and staying idle for the rest of your life – <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/dream/">dream it, do it</a>.

When you dream, you invigorate your internal motivation and passion. You feel a drive to achieve something and you can work towards it. Taking the first step towards your dream is always the hardest. The next hardest thing to do in achieving your dream <em>is to tell another person</em>.

How will they react? Will they scorn me? Will they think I am arrogant or over-confident? These are a few of the concerns I have had before I share my dreams with someone. But I firmly believe that by telling people, it has forced me to work towards achieving those dreams.

What dreams are you working towards? Share them with someone, you may just be surprised by the reaction you get.

<em>[Featured image: <a href="http://unsplash.com/post/90303600799/download-by-martin-stanek">Martin Stanek</a>]</em>