---
ID: 737
post_title: 3 Ways to initiate change
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/change/
published: true
post_date: 2014-09-03 20:01:57
---
I've written a number of articles trying to pass on the message that you can change your world. You can make your own changes in your life to better your job, your family, or simply… you.

You've been thinking about making a change. But you don't know where to start. Do I start a new hobby? Should I try change my team structure? What will happen if I say no when asked to do something?

After re-reading some of the articles and some thoughtful feedback from my <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/wingman/">wingman</a> (ie my wife), it has become evident that I often don’t mention <em>how</em>. Let me remedy that right now.

When you want to initiate change, there are 3 is simple rules to remember:

<ol>
<li>DECIDE</li>
<li>TRY</li>
<li>LEARN</li>
</ol>

<h2>Decide</h2>

The first thing that needs to happen before any action happens is to <em>make a decision to do it</em>. We have to be willing to take that first step. We have to be willing to take a risk. We have to be open to the possibility that this might just fail. We might fall far short of what we dreamed and planned. In the same breath, we might surprise ourselves. We might far <em>exceed</em> our expectations. We might just make it happen.

Decide on a new hobby. Decide on a possible new team structure. <em>Decide</em> on whether you are going to say ‘no’.

We choose change by making decisions. The magic begins with the decision to at least give it a go. <em>We have to try</em>.

<h2>Try</h2>

Action must be taken on the decisions we make. We simply just don't know what will happen when we try. Good or bad, the truth of the matter will only appear once we attempt to make the changes necessary. The attempts don’t have to be big either. I’m suggesting that you make small ones.

Like starting one little bit of your new hobby, or reviewing the team structure with peers or the team, or saying ‘no’ when you can’t take on a new task.

What happens next is just as important. Whatever the outcome of our actions from decisions, we must <em>learn</em> from them.

<h2>Learn</h2>

There is no point in trying out our decisions if we are not willing to learn from the outcomes. That is like hitting your head against the wall and hoping the next time won’t hurt.

Enjoyed the introduction to your hobby? Make the decision to explore some more. Didn’t enjoy it? Ditch it and make the decision to try something else.

The review of the team structure didn’t go so well? No problem, now you know what the team really wants.

What happened when you said ‘no’? The person maybe said ‘ok’, and carried on their path. Or they asked ‘why’, and a more fruitful conversation evolved about your workload.

I seem to have oversimplified how you can initiate change, but I fully believe it is as simple as this. Make the decision, try the decision, learn from the experience.

<em>[Featured image: <a href="http://unsplash.com/post/96058733909/download-by-sylwia-bartyzel">Sylwia Bartyzel</a>]</em>