---
ID: 634
post_title: My 5 Favourite Articles After Year One
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/yearone/
published: true
post_date: 2014-07-02 20:01:26
---
It started off on a cold, rainy winter's night in July 2013. I published my first article to browntel.net - simply wanting to get my message out to the ether. A year down the line, I am reviewing what I've done over this first year before I kick into the next. I've got some big things planned over the next year with Help Grow Change, and I really hope you join me on this journey. For now, sit back, relax, and have a read of five of my personal favourite articles.

Let's begin with the very first article, which pretty much set the tone for everything to come; a short, simple post about keeping things simple.

<h4><a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/the-key-to-efficiency-is-simple/">The Key To Efficiency Is Simple</a></h4>

 <br />
The first few months of this blog was inconsistent. I had no clear message that I was passing on except a few opinion pieces. I wrote about living in an earthquake city, second hand smoke, and even privacy concerns. One article that stood out for me was today's toys for our children. But the one article that got me going was the one I laid myself out for all to see.

<h4><a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/this-is-my-story-and-what-it-means-to-you/">This Is My Story, And What It Means To You</a></h4>

 <br />
That was September 2013. My writing was starting to take on a certain theme now. I was getting more confident and excited about having the ability to change people for the better. An idea had sparked. In the new year (and after I began my regular newsletter), I published about why you will never be good enough.

<h4><a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/imperfect/">Why You Will Never Be Good Enough</a></h4>

 <br />
I believe the writing from then on has had a similar theme, which I hope is appreciated by the people that read it. The next favourite article was a simple one with a simple message.

<h4><a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/action/">Take Action</a></h4>

 <br />
In March 2014 I had renewed inspiration with helping, growing, and changing people. It started with an article which struck a chord with me, and I love it. Be you, be awesome.

<h4><a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/fake/">Be you, be awesome</a></h4>

 <br />
Ok, I lied. There were so many articles out of the 47 I have written so far, that I couldn't keep the list limited to 5. One message I truly believe (and couldn't <em>not</em> put it in here), is that there is always hope.

<h4><a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/hope/">Hope In Your Darkest Hour</a></h4>

 <br />
Thank you for your support over this past year. I hope you continue on this journey with me. A journey that will move us out of mediocrity and into awesomeness.