---
ID: 610
post_title: 'Productivity Tip #1 &#8211; Make Time To Manage Time'
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/maketime/
published: true
post_date: 2014-06-18 20:01:22
---
Your task list is piling high. You barely have enough time to finish what you are meant to do (or not finish at all). Your boss is breathing down your neck for that report you were meant to finish last week. And your team is waiting for you approve their leave request.

Eventually it gets too much. You throw up your arms in exasperation! You know you have to find a way to manage your workload. Surely there must be a better way in order to get through your tasks.

I hear you - I felt like this before. I was busy all day every day, but when I got home at night, I didn't feel like I had achieved anything. There was so much I was busy with, I didn't know my left hand from my right. Emails, Incidents, Requests, Projects, further pressure from my management, it just never seemed to end. Sometimes, I would even need to work late into the night (many nights actually) in order to simply stay afloat in an ocean of workload.

I knew I had to do something about this, as working like that is simply not healthy. I started to read anything I could about productivity and time management. There was a plethora of information and many great tips, but one thing got to me - <em>I didn't have time to implement any of the advice</em>. I would ask myself questions like 'How the hell am I supposed to do this stuff when I am so busy with everything else', or 'These people make it sound so easy, that will never work for me'.

These were just excuses, though. I was just too lazy to try something new. I was comfortable in what I knew, and it looked like way too much effort to try these new tips. I also felt that some of the advice seemed a bit too generic, and would never work for me.

Despite my doubts, I tried the suggestions. Some worked, most failed. I discovered that not all advice worked for me. I found that I had to combine many different techniques in order to find what worked. And so should you. Even this advice I'm giving you right now should be taken with a pinch of salt, as it might not even be right for what you are looking for. But what if it is - you have to try.

<strong><em><span style="color:#ff3300;">No matter what you try in order to be more productive, you have to make the time to change.</span></em></strong>

Something has to give in order for you to have a better tomorrow. You must sacrifice some task completion now in order to ensure the better management of <em>all</em> your tasks going forward. It is going to be hard. You will not get to be the super-productive-ninja overnight. There is no magic wand to clear all the tasks away. It takes a lot of time, consistency, and many boring repetitions.

<strong><em><span style="color:#ff3300;">Having no time is not an excuse to hamper your future productiveness.</span></em></strong>

If you want to manage your workload better, the first item on your to-do list is to schedule the time in order to form your new productive habit. That habit will require conscious effort in order to be maintained. And after a while you will be doing it on auto. At that point, you schedule time to improve the next thing.

Some tips I've learnt over the years are;

<ol>
<li>Make time to implement a new productive habit (whatever habit works for you).</li>
<li>Implement <em>only one</em> new habit at a time. Having too many new habits will not allow you to apply the amount of focus needed to effectively form the new habit.</li>
<li>Be vigilant. Your new habit will not be in place one, two, or even ten days. It's going to take a while. That 'while' varies for different people. I believe that when you are performing your habit on auto more times than you have to think about it, then it's comfortable enough to form a new one.</li>
</ol>

Read up more about my productivity methods in the <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/category/productivity/">Productivity Section</a>

Having some problems implementing your productivity habit? Ask me a question, and I will try my best to help out with it.

<em>[Featured image: <a href="http://unsplash.com/post/88038410284/download-by-sonja-langford">Sonja Langford</a>]</em>