---
ID: 588
post_title: Do What Is Right For You
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/right/
published: true
post_date: 2014-06-04 20:01:07
---
We go through our lives each day thinking and dreaming about other ‘stuff’. Wondering what it would be like if things were done differently, or why certain things happen to us and not ‘those’ people.

What can we do to change that? How can we go about achieving the same success as those people we’re viewing through the looking glass? <em>We follow our own path</em>, that’s how.

All through my life, I’ve been trying to be someone else. In school I wanted to be like the ‘cool’ kids (I wasn’t). All through my career, I have tried to fit in with what I thought was the right thing to do. Sometimes this felt right, most times not. Which would probably explain why I’ve changed so many jobs.

<strong><em>We all want to be different just like everyone else.</em></strong>

Becoming a leader changed all that. I discovered within myself that it is not about doing the things to please other people. It is not about dressing right, or saying the right things. All that does is make you fit in. You become one of the sheep in the herd. Another person that thinks they’re different, but – really – they’re not.

Being a leader has taught me the value about being yourself. Not being afraid to take risks and the responsibility that comes with the consequences.

In a similar way, you can be your own leader. You decide your own path and take the necessary risks to keep to that path. That means sticking to what is true to you – not your boss, your colleagues, or your friends. Your wife/husband/life partner is a different matter, but that is a whole new post about partnership.

You are the one that controls your life path. The only way it’s going to change is by you stepping up and making that change yourself. It’s not going to come from me, your mom, or your religious entity. It’s all on you.

But you know what? I am confident you can do it. It’s not as big a step as it sounds. There are little things you can do to make your own change. Here are three suggestions:

<ol>
<li>If you want to be more productive - Say no. </li>
<li>If you want to help with Climate Change – switch off unused lights and appliances. </li>
<li>Try something new – a new food dish, a new hiking trail, or even a new hobby.</li>
</ol>

What will you be doing next that is right for you?

<em>[Featured image: <a href="http://unsplash.com/post/84391242419/download-by-danka-peter">Danka Peter</a>]</em>