---
ID: 1704
post_title: Say No To Be More Productive
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/sayno/
published: true
post_date: 2014-01-15 20:02:09
---
I like to be busy. Many tasks constantly taking up my time, so that I can immediately move onto the next one as soon as they complete. I am pretty sure you feel the same way too. We love the thrill of being ‘busy’. Being busy shows that we are working. We are doing many things for many hours. This model, however, cannot sustain us for very long. It drives us to stress, tiredness, and finally <em>burnout</em>.

Previously, if someone asked me to perform a task for them, I would try fit it in as best I could. I didn't like saying no. Over time, I would find myself stretched thin, and not providing quality to the task at hand. I was a ‘Yes Man’, the ‘Go-to Guy’, the person who ‘would do it for you’.

No more. It took me a few years, but I came to the realisation that this simply wasn’t good enough. Yes, it felt good to be the main man who could solve all your problems. All I was doing, though, was hampering my own workload.

No matter how efficient, meticulous, or productive you are, there is always a limit to the amount of work you can perform before the quality takes a dive. It is a slippery slope once this starts to happen. People start losing trust in you. They start doubting the value you have previously provided them. And they will lose respect for you and your work ethic. The very things you have worked so hard to attain by saying ‘yes’ to everything.

Trust and respect are extremely important. <em>Everyone</em> is your client. You are serving them by acting on their requests. In the same breath they are serving you. You want them to come back and request more service, and we all know that a returning client is the best client. By continuing to serve and provide for them, their trust and respect for you will grow, and so too will their loyalty. All these factors combined will get you a long way when something doesn’t go right, or the shit hits the fan. <em>Always</em> try to maintain trust and respect in all your encounters with your clients. (But I have deviated, let’s carry on)

Before letting your quality take a dip, try saying 'no' to the next person that asks you to perform something for them. Ok, not 'no' outright, but in a way that resets their expectation. Something that I've found that works well is; "Sorry Beryl, I'm quite snowed under at the moment, but I could get this to you by Friday?"; or "How urgent is this, Drew, I have some other things I've got to finish first, then I can get this to you?".

By aligning their expectations, you can then slot the new task in to the list you currently work with. You don't sacrifice the current task you're on. You won't lose respect. You've set the expectation with the person that asked you for the task. And everyone is a happy family.

It is vital to understand your own workload. It is no use setting the expectation with Beryl that you will have her request done by Friday, when you know full well that you will only be able to finish it next week Wednesday. Doing this is just as bad as saying 'yes' all the time.

Be honest with your clients. Although some might get irritated or disappointed, they will <em>all</em> appreciate the honesty in the end. In future dealings, they will know that when you tell them 'Friday', it will be Friday. And if you don't deliver what you promised, there will be a damn good reason for it.

What I've told you here, is from my personal experience. And to re-iterate, I believe the main factors are;

<ul>
<li>treat people with respect, and they will return it</li>
<li>be honest when setting expectations</li>
<li>keep true to your word</li>
<li>if you can't meet those expectations, reset them earlier rather than later</li>
<li>and be friendly at all times. Having a bad attitude will reduce the respect people have for you.</li>
</ul>

Don't be afraid to say no!

<em>Footnote:</em> If you are looking for some guidance on how to manage your tasks and workload, try using your most used tool during the day – your email application. I explain how to do this in my <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/5steps">book</a>, as well as <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/3ways">here</a>, and <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/focus">here</a>.