---
ID: 716
post_title: Create something out of nothing
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/create/
published: true
post_date: 2014-08-27 20:01:40
---
Are you an artist? Can you pick up a paint brush and whisk up a wonderful piece of work? Can you write up a song or story that will take our breath away? Don’t worry, neither can I. But you know what, <em>you can create anything you want</em>. It doesn’t matter how wonderful it is. It is something that you have taken out of your head and made it available for all to see.

What we tend to forget about ‘artists’, is that they live and breathe their art. Before the great works of art were created, they have practiced for years on end, moulding, sculpting, tweaking their skills to make them perfect. They worked endless hours making countless mistakes. Failed many times. Even now, they make mistakes and fail every time a new piece of work is created.

We are all naturally creative. Look around you. Who created your office workspace, who created your budget at home, who decides what paint colour to put on your child’s bedroom wall, who decides to lay out the lounge seating arrangement? It's not all about a paintbrush or a song. It's everything you do, every decision you make. You are injecting your own creativity, adding your own flair and imagination all the time.

Sure, it might not be the best, or look like something from a top designer. People might not buy it. But you know what? Who gives a crap? <em>It’s yours</em>. You created it. It came out of your fantastic mind. You created something out of nothing.

<p style="color: #ff6600;">
  <b><i>You took that thought, you acted on it, and you made it.</i></b>
</p>

Creating your own stuff has a few side effects. <em>Passion</em> and <em>Confidence</em>. When you realise that you have actually created something, a sense of achievement can appear (at least for me, it does). The realisation that me – an average non-creative person – can create something from nothing. You feel inspired to do more, to test the limits of this new found creativity. You wake up each day excited to work on your project. Even once you’ve finished the project, you can’t wait to start on the next.

After a while you come to a further realisation that, actually, your creations are not actually that bad. You take the chance of sharing with a friend, and another, and another. Naturally, you become more confident as you practice. Confident to take on something bigger and better.

<p style="color: #ff6600;">
  <b><i>I pose a challenge to you.</i></b>
</p>

I know for a fact that you enjoy doing <em>something</em>, everybody has something they have liked during their lifetime. Something that has piqued your interest. Explore that interest. Try something new. You might fail, you might discover that it’s not for you. The main point is that you <em>tried</em>. How do you know what your true creative outlet is until you actually try it? You might just be pleasantly surprised.

<em>[Featured image: <a href="http://unsplash.com/post/59630952361/download-by-jennifer-trovato">Jennifer Trovato</a>]</em>