---
ID: 666
post_title: 'Continue the struggle, you&#8217;re doing well'
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/struggle/
published: true
post_date: 2014-07-23 20:01:45
---
Bills. Sickness. Stress. Day in, day out. Why do we carry on? What is the point of doing the same thing day after day after day. We have all felt this way at some point (and for those of you that haven’t – you will, don’t worry). Some days it is hard to carry on through the doldrums. Those times when you’ve tried your best, and life just hits you back down. Disasters strike, plumbing bursts, or even as simple as public transport prices go up.

<p style="color: #ff6600;">
  <b><i>We may get angry and frustrated, but there is a reason to carry on.</i></b>
</p>

We work our asses off to make ends meet, stay healthy, maintain a house. All this effort and energy put in to no avail. We stay within the rules, we pay our dues, we ‘do the right thing’, and yet it is so frustrating to see other people around us take shortcuts, get away with it, and trot along to their wonderland with not a care in the world.

I think this way sometimes – probably too much. It makes me frustrated when people cheat and still win. It pisses me off when they steal and profit off of it. But after a while I become content. And here is why.

When I lay in bed at night and review my day, I know I have done good. I’ve gone about my day and my life as best I can. I’ve helped other people, my wife, my children. I’ve deepened relationships. I’ve shown respect. I’ve shown leadership. I’ve made a positive difference in someone’s day. I’ve stayed true to my values and morals.

<p style="color: #ff6600;">
  <b><i>My life has gotten richer, deeper, and more meaningful without the need to steal, cheat, or lie.</i></b>
</p>

I may not have gained a load of money, got a major discount on a product, or even have the kids stop fighting for a day. But I got an overload of experience. I got to experience time with my boys. Time to teach them right from wrong. I was healthy enough to walk outside and breathe in the fresh air after the rain. I made a difference.

<p style="color: #ff6600;">
  <b><i>And there is still tomorrow.</i></b>
</p>

Tomorrow brings further opportunities. More time to spend with the people we love. More discoveries. <em>More everything.</em>

Tomorrow will allow us to improve, to be better, to gain more meaning in life than the shortcut taker, the cheater, and the thief. They will need to deal with their own conscience when their time comes.

<em>[Featured image: <a href="http://unsplash.com/post/91300753899/download-by-raybay">RayBay</a>]</em>