---
ID: 690
post_title: Embrace the new chapters in your story
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/embrace/
published: true
post_date: 2014-08-06 20:01:48
---
This month, my eldest son started ‘big school’. He turned the grand old age of five, and started a new chapter in his story by starting primary school. In the weeks leading up to him taking his first step in school, he didn’t display nervousness or sadness, but rather excitement. He would badger my wife and I about when it would be happening.

Every time we drove past the school, he would state that he was going to be going to <em>that</em> big school. There is a lesson we can all learn from the way in which he approached making the big change to ‘big school’.

<p style="color: #ff6600;">
  <b><i>Embrace change. Embrace it fully with no looking back.</i></b>
</p>

When change is upon us, we should not resist it. Change brings new experiences, new challenges, new opportunities. It leads us down new paths that we may not have considered previously. While I agree that not all change is good, there is <em>always</em> something new to learn. Be aware, always learn – always <em>want</em> to learn.

It’s easy enough for me to tell you to ‘embrace change’ or ‘always learn’. I don’t know you, or your circumstances. What I do know, though, is that <em>change is inevitable</em>. You have two choices when change comes knocking on your door;

<ol>
<li>Resist change. Fight it. Be angry. Complain, and bemoan how things used to be. </li>
<li>Embrace change. Lean into it. Learn. Take up the challenge to get what you can out of the situation.</li>
</ol>

When we resist change, we create tension, stress, and negative emotions. When negativity runs through us, our minds are closed to learning and enjoyment. We tend to complain and reminisce about how things were. We protect any shred of what used to be.

<p style="color: #ff6600;">
  <b><i>Negativity is the road block to achieving anything new.</i></b>
</p>

If my son had resisted his first day of school, he would have been crying, having tantrums, or clung to my wife or I until the last second we had to leave. Even then, there would have been more tears and drama. There would have been much wasted time with himself and the teacher in order to calm him down. Wasted time in order to actually get him to the state in which he would be receptive to reading or learning.

Instead, on the morning of his first day, he couldn’t get his school bag ready quick enough. He couldn’t wait to hang his bag on the hook outside his class. He showed us where he was sitting and the playground he would be playing at during break time. When the school bell rang signalling the start of the day, he went straight to the mat, said goodbye, and was immediately listening to the teacher. Ready and waiting to learn.

Starting school is a massive change in his short life, yet he has taken it on with arms wide open. With that openness, so too is his mind open to new information. He is going to soak up any new learnings like a sponge – because he has made himself ready for it.

We can do the same in order to make the best of change. Instead of closing up, fighting, and making our lives difficult, we must receive change with enough openness to learn as quickly as possible. Quickly enough to adjust to the new circumstances. Quickly enough to understand the new circumstances in order to instigate new change if the situation is worse than before.

It was an extremely proud moment for us, seeing him sit on the mat attentively waiting for his new teacher. This is the beginning of an epic journey for him. There is so much for him to learn, explore, and decide on a path of his own. I can’t wait to see how he adapts to these new challenges.

<em>[Featured image: <a href="http://unsplash.com/post/75619000057/download-by-coley-christine-catalano">Coley Christine Catalano</a>]</em>