---
ID: 761
post_title: Learning to let go
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/letgo/
published: true
post_date: 2014-10-08 20:01:00
---
I’ve been on holiday for just over a week now. Away from the office, away from home, away from the monotony of daily life. It’s been good so far. My family have seen some interesting attractions and have learnt to live together in a cramped holiday home. My wife and I have really come to appreciate what we have back home, but there is one area where I have struggled during this time away.

That is to let go.

Back at the office, there has been an extremely high volume of problems to resolve. Some critical decisions are being made about team utilisation. And it has been weighing heavily on me that I have not been there to partake in the decision making process. Plans I had in place might be smashed to pieces. People utilisation might thrown out of whack. <em>The team will come crashing down</em>.

But then I realise that I have worked hard to <em>not</em> build the team on a house of cards. They have been provided opportunities to grow, to perform above and beyond, and to climb outside of their comfort zone. I trust in the decisions they are making, and will back them all the way.

Learning to let go is hard. It’s a haze of ‘what if’s’ and ‘should haves’. The more you think of these, the more worked up you become. You worry about possible outcomes that will never happen. In other words, you worry about nothing.

For me, the best way to let go is I tell myself I did the best I could.

If you look back at the past leading up to this point telling yourself you did the best you could, your worrisome self will immediately reply with ‘<em>you should’ve done that</em>' or ‘<em>what if you had gone that way</em>’. But if you really think about it, would you have really done it differently – really really?

I doubt it.

<strong><em>You did the best you could with what was provided to you and what you knew at the time.</em></strong>

Be content with that statement. Accept it. It is the complete truth.

Once you accept that you have done the best you could, you will be able to trust in the outcomes of situations while you are away. You will accept changes in situations a lot more quickly. It is something I am still learning to do, but this has worked for me with amazing effectiveness.

Give it a try, it might just work for you too.

<em>[Featured image: One of my holiday snaps of Lake Rotoiti]</em>