---
ID: 1703
post_title: How To Achieve Anything
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/achieve/
published: true
post_date: 2014-01-08 20:54:24
---
In order to achieve anything - and feel good about it - we must accomplish 'stuff'. This can be goals we've set, solving big problems, or successfully handling crises. But how do we actually <em>do</em> this? How do we beat our goals, solve those tricky problems, or navigate the storms?

<strong>One small step at a time.</strong>

Those age-old sayings are not just fairy tales. More and more, I am beginning to realise the wisdom behind them.

<blockquote>
  "One may walk over the highest mountain one step at a time."
</blockquote>

Whatever your mountain might be, the biggest move towards the summit is by taking that first step. And repeating that step until you reach the top.

Along the way there will be many stumbling blocks, issues, and points of excruciating frustration. How do you get past them? Continue those little steps.

It is amazing how far we get just by continuing to walk. One foot in front of the other. Stepping, walking, climbing. It all needs to be done in order for our goals to be met. Our problems to be solved.

<blockquote>
  "If there is no wind, row." <em>Proverb</em>
</blockquote>

I used to view my situations as huge, confusing, impenetrable masses. With no possible way to get to the other side. I'd try this, or try that, but by the end of the day, there would be no success. No success brought disappointment. Disappointment brought demotivation.

However, by breaking up these masses into smaller clusters, things became easier. The focus of each cluster being on a specific aspect, I found I could now tackle the situations one piece at a time. As I worked through these clusters, slowly but surely, the main muddled mass of a problem would begin to wear thinner and thinner. And eventually dissipate.

Success! What a fantastic feeling.

<blockquote>
  "Change your life by changing your mind." <em>Jeff Goins</em>
</blockquote>

Now, how does this apply to you? Simple really. Whenever you are presented with a pressing situation, or want to achieve a massive goal, or some other massive weight you need to get off your chest, why not try break it down into smaller, more manageable, chunks?

These smaller pieces equate to the 'steps up a mountain' mentioned earlier. Smaller pieces are 'easier' to achieve. And once the first piece is achieved, you will gain the confidence to tackle the next piece, and the next after that.

<blockquote>
  "There is nothing impossible to him who will try." <em>Alexander the Great</em>
</blockquote>

What you can take away from this today is that <strong>no situation is too big</strong> for you to tackle and <strong>focus on smaller areas</strong> that you can achieve. Eventually (and before you least expect it) you will reach the successful outcome you are yearning for.