---
ID: 742
post_title: Ignore the bullies in life
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/bully/
published: true
post_date: 2014-09-10 20:01:03
---
Big, bad bullies are encountered through all stages of our lives. Taking our lunch money in school; demeaning us in the workplace; and taking advantage of any situation they are placed in. Why do certain people get picked on, and why do bullies continue to pick on them?

I’m no psychologist, but from my own experiences, I believe there are certain tactics you can use to 'handle' bullies – tactics to keep them at bay, or at least to get them not to pick on you. Simply put, these <em>super-scientific</em> tactics are to smile; ignore; and don't show weakness.

<h2>Tactic 1: Smile</h2>

Smiling puts bullies off. If they are intimidating you in any way, roughing you up, they won't be expecting a smile. They will be expecting some sort of reaction from you – a wince, a retaliation, but certainly not a smile.

<h2>Tactic 2: Ignore the bully</h2>

The act of smiling will initially get the bully confused. What will really confuse them further, as well as get their back up, will be to simply ignore the intimidation.

By serving no reaction to the bully’s motives, they will get bored very quickly and move on. Bully’s love a reaction. When they don’t get it, they will leave you alone.

Coupled with random smiling, the act of ignoring will confuse the bully further.

<h2>Tactic 3: Show no weakness</h2>

Finally, and most importantly, <em>show no weakness</em>. Don’t cower, grimace, retaliate, or cry in any way. Showing any sort of reaction will be taken as a win by the bully, and he will simply return in future to get his kick.

Face them head on while the attack is in play. Give them the reaction they deserve – nothing. Deny them what they are after – power over you. Show no weakness.

Don’t get me wrong. Bullies will certainly hurt you while in the moment. It is vital you do not take offence to what they are attacking you with. Vital that you don’t get beaten by what they are striking you with. You are stronger than you will ever believe.

Be empathetic to the bullies. It’s tough, I know, it’s hard for me to even be typing this. They have come to be how they are due to past experiences. They feel they can only get anywhere in life by forcing their way through intimidation and vindictiveness.

Don’t let yourself be that target. Smile, say ‘Thanks’, and move on with <em>your</em> life. Don’t even give them a second thought.

<em>[Featured image: <a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/44950052@N07/4744198182">Jonathan Grenier</a>]</em>