---
ID: 546
post_title: Dream it, do it
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/dream/
published: true
post_date: 2014-05-21 20:21:20
---
I dream way too much. I dream of a new phone, more money, a holiday on some remote Pacific island. You’re dreaming about it too – the white sandy beaches, the crystal clear water… maybe one day we will get there.

You and I always fall into the same trap with these dreams. <em>One day</em> I will be able to afford a holiday. <em>One day</em> I will get a top-of-the-range phone. <em>One day</em>, when I get a promotion, I will get that money I’ve been dreaming of.

<em>One day</em> will never come about. Your dream will always be exactly that - <em>a dream</em> - until you make them into plans.

<h2>Take action</h2>

Instead of dreaming about one day, why not start planning <em>today</em>. Take action and begin the journey to reach that dream. I’m not saying put the island holiday on the credit card and book flights tomorrow (that’s a bit crazy), rather begin to formulate a plan.

<h2>Write it down</h2>

While you are dreaming about that phone, holiday, or training course, write it down. It doesn’t matter what format, just whip something out and start writing the ideas down. Things like what time of year would be good, what is the actual price of the item, why do you need it?

Slowly, a picture will form. A picture showing you what is required for you to attain your dream. When I’ve done this before, I have found that I think of other factors that I would not have thought of if I were simply dreaming about <em>one day</em>. For a holiday, necessities like passport requirements, currency, or even local hazards such as earthquakes or volcanoes. For a phone, I would think about specs and data speeds that are compatible with the phone. And even for more money, it’s a matter of what do I need to do to get there?

<h2>Plan it</h2>

Once notes have been made and a little research done, you will feel a sense of achievement. That is because action was taken, something was done, a step was taken towards that dream.

When you physically note something out of your head and onto paper (or a screen), you have taken your dream and made it a plan. You make your dream more real, more feasible, more attainable. You have something tangible you can work with. You can mould it, shape it, and work with it to reach that dream.

You can also decide where you will go next. Do you need to save money? How much? For how long? Do you need to compare products, services, providers? What area do I need to focus on to improve in order to get that promotion?

All these questions can be answered with a little planning and action.

<em>[Featured image: <a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/togawanderings/9220511508">Thomas Galvez</a>]</em>