---
ID: 622
post_title: Find Your Wingman
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/wingman/
published: true
post_date: 2014-06-25 20:01:22
---
In our daily struggles to become successful, we tend to think we are doing it all ourselves. We are the ones putting in the hard yards. We are the ones driving change forward. We are the masters of our own fate.

<strong><em><span style="color:#ff3300;">We are wrong. We are not the sole players in this game.</span></em></strong>

Every person has someone looking out for them. Not in a ‘Guardian Angel’ sense, but rather a ‘Wingman’ type of way. Someone who will offer support when the times are tough. Someone who will pat us on the back after the victories. That certain someone who will push us when we start slacking.

That person could be anyone. Your partner, your mentor, your father, or even your work colleague. But they are there – watching, supporting, helping you through the tough times.

If you don’t think there is anyone who has your back currently, I pose a few questions to you:

<ul>
<li>Who do you call when you achieve something special to you?</li>
<li>Who do you confide in when the going gets tough?</li>
<li>Who is the person that will give you honest feedback on your work? And not just a ‘That’s great’ comment.</li>
</ul>

If you answered with a person for any of these questions, then you have a Wingman. You may not only have one wingman, but a few. I would hazard a guess that there isn’t more than a handful of people who you could name as an answer to the three questions above.

For me, this person is my amazing wife. She is the resounding winner in all the three earlier questions. She is there through thick and thin. She relishes in my successes, consoles me in my failures, and drives me to perform better.

<strong><em><span style="color:#ff3300;">Simply put - I wouldn’t be where I am today without her.</span></em></strong>

Today, I pose a challenge to you. Take some time out from your own goals and struggles, and concentrate on giving back to your wingmen and women.

Think, and I mean <em>really</em> think, about the response to the three questions I asked earlier. Identify the person or key people that have your back. Not your group of best buddies. I’m talking about those people in the background. Those who you trust, who you confide in, and who never quite make the headlines when you achieve your own success.

Go show them your appreciation. Concentrate on what they’re doing, what they’re trying to achieve. Is there something they need encouragement on? Something they’ve attempted, but couldn’t quite reach? How can you help them be better than they are today?

Go on. They deserve it. They helped you get to where you are today.

<em>[Featured image: <a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/94742304@N07/14277692685">Florian Nohring</a>]</em>