---
ID: 765
post_title: The calm before the storm
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/calm/
published: true
post_date: 2014-10-15 20:01:12
---
I've been away on a family holiday for the past two weeks. It was a great time away from the office, away from home, away from life in general. There was much needed reflection on where I am today, where we are as a family, and where we want to go.

But as I sit on the train, ricketing its way into the office, I can't help but feel that this holiday was the calm of the storm. Almost like the slow motion effect you get after ramping off a hill and calmly floating through the air for a few seconds before <strong>slamming</strong> into the surface to continue racing downhill.

We all need these periods of calm bliss to get away from it all. To take some time to go see and experience some place new. Just something to get out of the daily grind. And when you do have the opportunity to do so, take some time to simply stop and think.

Think deeply about many things.

<h2>Think about...</h2>

...<em>where you are in your life.</em><br />
Are you where you want to be? Are you happy with the person you have become? Celebrate the successes you have achieved. Reminisce about the past handful of years and see just how much you have gained, lost, or changed.

...<em>what you have.</em><br />
Appreciate the little things you have that make your life easier. Appreciate the people in your life. The abundance of food, clean water, or even a roof over your head. Being able to afford pension fund or medical insurance. Do you really need everything you have? It might be time to let go of some 'stuff'.

...<em>the future.</em><br />
Where do you want to be in your life? What does success mean to you? How can you get there? Start to formulate a plan of how you can achieve your dream, or become the person you want to be. It doesn't need to be super detailed. You will know what you want to become by using the first thought that comes into your head when you ask yourself that question.

<h2>My reflection</h2>

I'm not the type of person to tell you how to do things without doing it myself. I thought a lot about the three things I've mentioned in this article. I am more than comfortable in sharing it with you.

Overall, I am happy with the person that I am today. My family and I have achieved a lot over the past few years (the last 7 in particular). I want more of it. A stronger family bond. Success for my wife. More positive impact at my workplace.

More and more do I find myself appreciating what I have in my life. My healthy family, my house, the opportunity to afford the little pleasures in life. I am an extremely lucky person to be able to have all of this around me.

<h2>Get away</h2>

I encourage you to take a break from your daily grind - whether that be an amazing getaway or staying with family in another city. Holidays can be expensive, but I believe the experience that you or your family will gain will make it well worth your while. Just the act of getting away from monotony of daily life helps the process of reflection, planning, and eventually, the <em>action</em> you need to take to get the life you want.

<strong><em>Where will you be going?</em></strong>