---
ID: 1705
post_title: 20 Quotes that will change your life
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/quotes/
published: true
post_date: 2014-11-05 20:01:13
---
We all love quotes. Short, quirky sentences that sum up how we're feeling today. We smile, we share it on social media, and, most of the time, we forget them after a few minutes. There are a few, though, that stick with you for a lifetime. Those few that you remember while you drive your car, eat your dinner, or watch a movie. Those are the quotes that change your life.

Here are a few quotes that have changed my life. There aren't powerful pictures, or flashy text. When the message is true, it doesn't matter what medium it comes through.

I ask a favour of you while you read these. Take a moment to ponder each one - and I mean <em>really</em> think about them. Do they appeal to you? Do they strike a chord? Do you aspire to be like that? If you answered yes to any of these questions, what is stopping you from taking action? <em>Nothing</em>. You can change your world by taking the first step.

Here they are:

<h2>Be silly. Be honest. Be kind.</h2>

<em>Ralph Waldo Emerson</em>

<hr />

<h2>We shall never know all the good that a simple smile can do.</h2>

<em>Mother Teresa</em>

<hr />

<h2>He who laughs, lasts.</h2>

<em>Unknown</em>

<hr />

<h2>Be the reason someone smiles today.</h2>

<em>Bruce van Horn</em>

<hr />

<h2>Today you are You, that is truer than true. There is no one alive who is Youer than You!</h2>

<em>Dr. Seuss</em>

<hr />

<h2>If you haven’t decided to matter, you won’t.</h2>

<em>Dan Rockwell</em>

<hr />

<h2>It takes courage to grow up and turn out to be who you really are.</h2>

<em>E.E. Cummings</em>

<hr />

<h2>If you have nothing to say, say nothing.</h2>

<em>Mark Twain</em>

<hr />

<h2>Successful people do not complain about the things they have the ability to change, they simply change them.</h2>

<em>Unknown</em>

<hr />

<h2>Nothing changes if nothing changes.</h2>

<em>Unknown</em>

<hr />

<h2>A comfort zone is a wonderful place, but nothing ever grows there.</h2>

<em>Unknown</em>

<hr />

<h2>A beautiful thing is never perfect.</h2>

<em>Egyptian proverb</em>

<hr />

<h2>Not trying is the only true failure.</h2>

<em>Unknown</em>

<hr />

<h2>You will never win if you never begin.</h2>

<em>Helen Rowland</em>

<hr />

<h2>There is nothing impossible to him who will try.</h2>

<em>Alexander the Great</em>

<hr />

<h2>You don’t need more time, you just need to decide.</h2>

<em>Seth Godin</em>

<hr />

<h2>All glory comes from daring to begin.</h2>

<em>Eugene F. Ware</em>

<hr />

<h2>If there is no wind, row.</h2>

<em>Proverb</em>

<hr />

<h2>Running away from your problems is a race you will never win.</h2>

<em>Unknown</em>

<hr />

<h2>The price of being a sheep is boredom. The price of being a wolf is loneliness. Choose one or the other with great care.</h2>

<em>Unknown</em>

<hr />

What quotes have you come across that you live by? I'd love to know.