---
ID: 1117
post_title: >
  New limits are set when you disregard
  your current ones
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/limits/
published: true
post_date: 2015-03-10 20:01:39
---
How often do you find yourself saying "Oh, I can't do that", or "That is so out of my league"? I'm guessing pretty often. Don't worry, we all do it. We downgrade our abilities before we've even started - before we've even <em>thought</em> about starting.

We look at others, and see them running for miles, selling up a storm, or climbing mountains. We are happy for those people, and we congratulate them on their achievements. But we never actually think about doing it ourselves because we're not as fit/charismatic/courageous/(<em>enter appropriate word here</em>) as them. I may not have achieved much in my life (yet), but there is one thing I can tell you - and that is you can achieve as much or as little as you want.

<strong>Most of the barriers we face in our lives are self-imposed limits.</strong>

We limit ourselves in our quiet comfort zones. Those places where we know what we are doing, what will happen, and we feel 'safe'. We become used to this lifestyle and soon forget we can achieve more. We forget there is so much more to enjoy, if we only just test our current boundaries.

Testing your limits isn't easy. You have to figure where your limits are, how you will test them, and then the hard part comes into play - <em>actually taking action to push past the barriers</em>. For me, the toughest battle I fight, is internally with my own mind. My mind tells me I can't do something (like <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/ask/">having the audacity to ask</a> or running 5km in under 25 minutes). I believe my mind's words to be true, but persist in trying anyway.

<strong>New limits are set when you disregard your current ones.</strong>

When reading motivational messages, the consistent message seems to be 'YOU CAN DO IT!', 'DREAM BIG, REACH HIGH!', 'JUST GO GO GO!'. This creates a perception in our minds that we need to <em>go big or go home</em>. Take this advice with a pinch of salt. There is some truth in these messages, but they are creating a false future.

You're not going to be blazing a 10km run tomorrow, or climbing Mount Kilimanjaro next week, or even making dozens of sales by the end of today. If you believe this, you are setting yourself up for failure.

You need to <strong>courageously</strong> test your limits through tiny little incremements. We are all operating at different levels, with different mindsets and skills. Set yourself challenges to improve - small enough to be achievable, and large enough to be just outside your comfort zone.

Every time I run, I increase my distance a little, or run a little quicker. Even if it is a few hundred metres more, or only a few seconds less - <em>it is better than before</em>. Similarly, you can do this by testing yourself 'just a little more'.

<blockquote>
  There is more in you
</blockquote>

This simple saying really helps me test my limits just that little bit more. It implies that we have the energy to take one more step, we have the mental power to practice one more time.

As you test the limits of your comfort zone, you will find the boundaries begin to shift outward. Those limits you thought you had, have long since disappeared. You now know what you are capable of, and soon you will be testing your new limits again.

You may not move mountains today or tomorrow, but you are one step closer and that's what counts.