---
ID: 1083
post_title: >
  How you can find your own work-life
  balance
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/worklife/
published: true
post_date: 2015-03-03 20:01:02
---
Working a full time job, budding an online audience, and still being a dad and husband is taxing. I’m not going to lie about it. I want to be home to be the best  father and husband, but need to be the best at work so that I can provide for home. How can I achieve that all at once? Can we achieve it at all? I don't believe so, and here's why.

I am constantly volunteering to be better. Forever improving myself to <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/yesterday/">be better than yesterday</a>. Always looking forward and up. Moving up the corporate ladder. Forward planning for my team. Yet still having the focus outside of the office to make a wider impact with HelpGrowChange. While this whirlwind is happening, I am applying the same passion and motivation to my loving family. Trying my best to give them the same attention and energy that I am exerting in other areas.

And it’s damn hard. I am wondering how it can all be done. Surely there must be a way to fit it all in?

You might be in a similar situation. Your focus at work is to take the next step up the corporate ladder, or expanding your skillset to gain more responsibility. Outside of the office, you may have a hobby you're working on, or a book you're writing, or a business you're wanting to grow.

Where does your family fit in? You're probably a lot like me, where you're trying your best to give them the same focus. At the end of the day, everything you're doing is for them, right? As I’m writing this, I am realising that the priority of my focus is all wrong. It now makes sense.

<h3>Family comes first.</h3>

I'm doing everything for them. Working for them. Making money for them. But by doing all that, I’m <em>taking time away from them</em>. This just feels all wrong to me.

This is where the dilemma lies. In order to keep us under a roof, to keep eating, and to be comfortable. <em>We still need to work</em>.

From my research, experts and people tend to say “<em>just forget about work</em>” or <em>“money doesn’t make you happy</em>”. The unfortunate truth for us working-class folk, is that '<em>money makes the world go round</em>'. Money, unfortunately, is a necessity. The age for bartering and living on your own claimed land is centuries gone, and we simply cannot live like that anymore.

Unless we want to be homeless, and live on the street.

No. We have to work. We have to work smart. Smart enough to earn a lifestyle of comfort without the endless hours of business. Freeing up enough time to focus on where our real values lie.

But how? How can we do this without sacrificing work or family. Again, the unfortunate truth is “life is full of sacrifice”. Something will have to give in order for you to achieve your goals. In order to be the best father and husband you will have to compromise your financial success. In order to gain financial success, you will have to give up your family gains. These are really (<em>really</em>) tough decisions to make. You can’t achieve everything <em>at the same time</em>.

<h3>However, there may be some possible ways around this.</h3>

<strong>Break our day into segments.</strong> For example – the standard 'work' time is 9am-5pm; (allow time for commuting); 6pm-9pm is family time; and the remaining 1-2hrs is 'alternative work' time. This splits any given day into workable chunks where dedicated time and focus can be given to the respective areas of our lives.

A schedule can be marked on the calendar where certain <strong>days of the week</strong> can be the focus of certain areas in our lives.

An agreement can be reached within the family about how a <strong>combination of the above</strong> can be used.

At the end of the day, I don’t believe there is a solution for this problem that has plagued our working society for generations. It may just be the fact of us having to stop trying to achieve <em>everything</em> and only focus on one or two values that we find critical to our own happiness.

I'm still in limbo with finding my focus, but I'm trying my best. <em>Are you struggling with your time at home? What do you find that works for you?</em>