---
ID: 891
post_title: How will you make 2015 better?
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/better-2015/
published: true
post_date: 2015-01-13 20:02:41
---
The trouble with life is that it just gets in the way of your dreams. It sits there and sniggers when you haven't achieved a goal you've set for yourself. It constantly intervenes to hamper your progress towards bigger and better things. Life laughs in your face, especially when you're down.

The truth is, it's not life that gets in the way, it's us. We are the ones that allow distractions in. We are the ones that lose the momentum when the going gets tough (or too easy for that matter). We are the ones that allow our end goals to slip away.

Last year, I experienced just this. The year started off with a bang. I had started my newsletter, my work was being posted on other blogs. I was gaining exposure in the right places. But then I got lazy. I lost focus, and the year just fizzled out into mediocrity. I was extremely disappointed with myself.

I learnt something important during that time. I learnt my limitations and what I need to do to exceed them. I learnt more about myself and what I want to do with my life. I learnt I am not as awesome I as I think I might be. Finally, I learnt humility.

It seemed to be a recurring theme. I needed to find a way out of this habit. Thanks to my beautiful wife, that path may have been found. During Christmas my wife bought Leonie Dawson's <a href="http://leoniedawson.com/shop/kits/shining-year-workbook-calendar-2015/">2015 workbook</a>, and I found Michael Hyatt's free introductory videos for his <a href="http://bestyearever.me/">best year ever course</a>. Both are about setting goals <em>and achieving them</em>. They offer a system you can use to effectively and confidently achieve your goals. I am intrigued at how similar these methods are, and I believe there is some common sense in them.

My wife and I worked our way through Leonie Dawson's workbook. It had us thinking long and hard about what we want to achieve in our lives this year. I'm excited about what opportunities will present themselves - if I can stick to my guns. I'm confident that by using the methods learnt through Leonie Dawson and Michael Hyatt, my work life, home life, and life in general will be changed for the better.

What about you? Have you thought about what you want to achieve this year? How are you going to do it? I highly recommend implementing a system for you to achieve all you can.