---
ID: 1243
post_title: >
  Climb out of your past to face your
  future
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/climb/
published: true
post_date: 2015-04-28 20:01:12
---
Sometimes we are stuck in the past. We go about our routines and habits because we have always done them this way. It's safe, comfortable, and we don't want to 'break something that is not broken' as some people say.

This is where the problem lies.

If we are stuck doing the same thing at the same level, we will never grow - you will never grow. There will be no improvement, no joy of discovering something new, nothing to stimulate your mind or soul. But you know what? You can change it. No matter what some of your naysayers might say, you <em>can</em> change all of what you can control - which is a lot more than you believe it is.

<b>You have the power to change your own future, and it's time you claimed your own life back.</b>

This is so much easier said than done - <em>I know</em>. There are many things to worry about like finances, skills, life in general. The biggest hurdle of all, though, <em>is you</em>. You need to decide that you want to change your life. No-one can change it for you. Sure, they can offer you opportunities, but it all comes down to you wanting it and <em>deciding to take action</em>.

We all have <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/dream">dreams</a>, yet so often that is how they remain - dreams. From when we were children, we may have dreamed of changing a person's fate on the operating table, or testing the boundaries of human discovery in space. Let's face it, some dreams are unrealistic (possible, but unrealistic).

For your own sanity and confidence, you need to be serious about what you want and what you can achieve. If you're like me, a 30-ish person stuck in a desk job, the odds are we are not going to be an astronaut any time soon. We're not going to be working on a critical procedure on the operating table, unless we are the patient. You might still want to achieve those dreams, but you have to let them go for now.

<b>You need to focus on what you have right now, and what you can change for your future.</b>

I still dream of being some hotshot owner of a popular technology company, but as the years roll on, I'm accepting the fact that I'll probably not achieve it. So, I'm looking for alternatives. I might not be owner of something big, but I can be an owner of something <em>that provides value</em>. I'm looking at options in my current situation where I can help, grow, and change other peoples lives.

This blog is my first example of such a change. My <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/wingman">wife</a> is starting something of her own. There are a couple more things we're working on as well. Our excitement is building about the future opportunities presenting themselves.

The changes you make don't need to be drastic. Small ones here and there make massive differences further down the line. How about investigating the possibility of some free studies, such as <a href="http://www.coursera.com">Coursera</a> or <a href="http://www.codecademy.com/">Codecademy</a>? <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/start-blog/">Start a blog</a> about your expertise? Volunteer in your local community? As you make one small change, I promise you it will become easier to make more changes. Bigger changes that will truly change your life.

The past cannot be changed, but you can still prepare for your future. What will you change today?