---
ID: 1290
post_title: 'It&#8217;s ok to take a lazy time-out occasionally'
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/timeout/
published: true
post_date: 2015-05-19 20:01:01
---
I've been going 'balls to the wall' for the first half of this year. I've created many things and much has happened. I find myself surprised at how quickly May popped out of nowhere. But it's been tough. And I'm feeling rather lazy.

My usual productivity periods tend to have peaks and troughs around a few months apart. I become uber-productive and motivated during one month of the year, then dip down into a <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/getting-through-the-productivity-lulls/">lull</a> another month or so later. I become lethargic, tend to watch more T.V., play more games, and become just plain <em>lazy</em>.

It's not entirely a bad thing.

We all need some time to just chill out. Time to think about nothing in particular, and go through enough of the motions to complete the necessities of a day. If we don't allow this laziness, we burn out. We drive ourselves into a frenzy where we always feel like we're not achieving anything or have to prove to ourselves (or nobody in particular) that we are 'busy'.

And that is entirely a <strong>bad thing</strong>.

<p style="color: #ff6633;"><b><i>Don't be too lazy, though.</b></i></p>

There is one caveat to allowing yourself some laziness - and that is to <em>not be lazy for too long</em>. We humans are suckers for habit. Any habit (good or bad) is learnt through repetition. Allowing yourself to be lazy for too long will trick you into becoming lazy permanently.

How do we stop the fall into continued laziness? <em>We remind ourselves who we are and ask ourselves are we doing the best we can do.</em>

Yes, we need breaks.
Yes, we are only human.
Yes, we are lazy.

But that is not an excuse to be lazy <em>all the time</em>. There is still a crap load of work to be done, and nobody will do it for you. You are the only one who can improve your life.

So...Please excuse me while I switch over to the next reality T.V. show, but tomorrow will be different because I know what I still need to do, I know who I am, and I know I want to make a difference. In order to make that difference, I need a little time-out.

<em>If you are lazy sometimes, how do you like to spend it?</em>