---
ID: 875
post_title: >
  I am back to blogging, thanks to great
  support
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/iamback/
published: true
post_date: 2015-01-06 20:02:25
---
I am back to blogging. Back to influencing positive change where I can. It’s all thanks to the great support I received after stopping late last year. HelpGrowChange has gone through a transformation and I look forward to us working together to help, grow, and change the world around us.

<h2>Why I stopped</h2>

As you might be aware, in November 2014 I made the decision to stop writing on my blog. I felt I was a fraud, I wasn't giving 100%. It didn't feel right talking about positive change when I wasn't living it myself.

At times, I would be banging out an ‘ordinary’ article just to meet the weekly deadline I had set for the newsletter. The message didn’t seem to have the same meaning. I felt I wasn’t making as much impact as I could.

The decision to stop was tough. HelpGrowChange was something I loved. It was a part of my life where I felt I was contributing to a purpose larger than myself. And yet, I still didn't feel right with the effort I was putting in.

I wrote my last newsletter entry in November, thinking it would be the end of HelpGrowChange.

<h2>The unexpected response and realisation of purpose</h2>

After that last newsletter was sent out, many of my connections through the newsletter (read: <em>you</em>) came to me asking ‘why’. The message you told me was consistent - <em>do not stop HelpGrowChange</em>.

I was truly humbled and grateful for the support I received. Somehow, it made it all worthwhile. The message I've been striving to spread and the effort I was putting in were good enough to make an impact.

I came to realise that no matter how ‘ordinary’ my messages felt to me, they still had meaning to you. There was still a need for a positive influence in your lives. Still a need for help, growth, and change.

I am ready to take up that challenge again. I hope you will join me on this journey – we have much to do.

<h2>Where to from here</h2>

I did much thinking during December. I thought long and hard about where I want to positively influence our world, how I can do it, and what I need to do in order to maintain consistency.

To be honest with you, I didn’t come up with much. But I came to two main values I want to stick to – <strong><em>simplicity</em></strong> and <strong><em>delivery</em></strong>.

<h3>Keeping it simple</h3>

I want to keep things as simple as possible, particularly around <em>the message</em> and <em>design</em>.

I tend to over-elaborate when I explain a topic to someone. I think about the words too much, and don’t stick to enough structure. It all ends up confusing me and the person I’m talking to. Keeping to the core of the message will keep me talking straight and simple. <em>Easy peasy.</em>

When it comes to design, I want to keep it as simple and distraction free as possible. Implementing too many design factors can get distracting, which will take you away from the purpose of the message itself.

<h3>Deliver, deliver, deliver</h3>

One thing I believe I had going during 2014 was consistency. An article was delivered consistently every week. I want to continue that during 2015, but with a slight twist in the type of content.

I’ve been playing around with visual thinking. Visual thinking is about drawing pictures to get an idea out, or deliver a message. I believe this will help deliver some of my messages <em>better</em> and appeal to more people. I will be experimenting with different types of content and would love to hear your feedback on that.

<h2>And so, we continue</h2>

To end off this letter of sorts, I want to say <em>thank you</em>. Thank you for your support, patience, and listening to my random thoughts. I am excited about the coming year, and I hope you will be there to experience it with me.

<em>[Featured image: <a href="http://unsplash.com">Jeff Sheldon</a>]</em>