---
ID: 1146
post_title: Stand up for what you believe in
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/stand/
published: true
post_date: 2015-03-17 20:02:44
---
Being kind and caring is perceived as being weak by naysayers in our lives. Often, they laugh at our caring and demean our kindness - either to smash us down or make themselves feel better. Many caring folk fold under this mockery, become submissive and let the bullies in to their lives, ultimately allowing them to destroy it.

When I first started this blog, I was embarrassed to share that I wrote a blog. When I did mention that I blogged, some people would then mock me about it. Every time a situation would come up, they would disrespectfully say "Maybe you should write a blog post about this". Even after finding out that I was trying to make a positive impact on this world, some other people would further attempt to put me down, going as far as saying that I will never make a difference as there is simply too many voices in this world.

I don't give a damn what those people said, or would possibly say. I am helping people in need because <em>it is the right thing to do</em>. It is a risk, yes, but it is worth it. I help people find some purpose, help them see a brighter future, help them in any way I can.

Through me taking action and doing things for others, the bullies in my own life have backed off. They no longer pester me with small-minded comments. Or, I just simply <a href="http://helpgrowchange.com/bully/">ignore them</a> and filter them out completely.

I believe you should ignore the bullies too. Do not allow yourself to stoop to their level. Do not allow them to play their mind games and wedge themselves in your head - initiating self-doubt and fear.

I believe you should make a stand of who you are and what you stand for. Helping out your brother, your friend, or a stranger is a <strong>sign of strength</strong>. It's a sign that you are focusing on something greater than yourself. You are using your precious time and energy to make somebody else's life better. That is awesome. You should do it more.

<blockquote>
  "If people are criticising you, you're doing something right." - Unknown
</blockquote>

The bullies and the naysayers will always be there, trying to get in your face and putting you down. But you know what? <em>That's a good thing</em>. It means you are making a difference in your world, changing our world for good, and doing what is right (almost like a superhero of sorts).

That's what I try to remember when I'm being put down. I know what I'm doing is for the greater good. Not everything in this world is as bad as people say. And sometimes, actually <em>most-times</em>, a little kindness goes a very long way.