---
ID: 1230
post_title: Persistence almost made me cry
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/persist/
published: true
post_date: 2015-04-21 20:01:21
---
It is amazing how dogged persistence gets results. They can be good or bad, but they are results nonetheless. My wife and son showed persistence recently that had me frustrated, bored, and close on tears from their shear willpower. They showed me how persistence will get you what you need in the end.

My wife was on the lookout for a logo for her new business venture (<em>coming soon!</em>). It involved a search lasting almost a year, scouring the web for possible pictures, me sketching a few ideas, and even asking our friend over at <a href="https://www.facebook.com/pages/iCreate/884267901598322?fref=ts">iCreate</a> to draw something. Then, finally, on a fateful rainy day, an image was found. It was simple, effective, and perfect for what my wife wanted as the face of her brand.

There had been many possible logos throughout her search, but they never felt quite right. She had an image in her mind of what she wanted, and wouldn't settle for anything less. It was both admiring and frustrating to see the dogged persistence.

Her story showed me we should not settle for less than what we deserve - especially when we can change it. So often, do we compensate our needs because we don't want to 'rock the boat', or deal with too many challenges for any length of time.

<strong><em>We make do with average, or never feel the true happiness of achieving and having something we know can be better.</em></strong>

Similarly, persistence is needed to push someone else out of their comfort zone, which brings me to potty training and making me cry (well, almost).

It was time to rid my 3 year old son of his nappy during the day. My son has one of the strongest stubborn streaks of anyone I know, so this training was always going to be a battle royale - our parental persistence against his stubbornness. Bear in mind that potty training generally takes up to 5 or 6 days, more due to bladder-control accidents rather than stubbornness.

The first day started off like any normal potty training, with some cajoling and accidents. The second day was flat out refusal from my son to co-operate. It didn't improve after 3 days, 4 days, <em>8 days</em>. He would randomly agree to potty, but it was never consistent and always after lengthy battles between parent and child.

On the 10th day my wife and I were at our wits end. Still with no improvement, we were on the verge of tears, almost giving up in the process. We were especially frustrated because we <em>knew</em> he was being defiant. We seeked guidance and consolation from friends and family, but were told to 'leave him be', or 'he'll get there in time'. We simply could not accept this outcome because if we gave up now, we would have to start all over again another time.

We persisted.

12 days in to potty training, and <em>success</em>! My son finally grasped the concept that it was easier for everyone (including himself) to not be restricted by a nappy anymore. This was a classic sign of how we stay in our comfort zones for far too long.

<strong><em>Sometimes it takes the persistence of others to break through our barriers and pull us to new horizons.</em></strong>

In any type of persistence, there is frustration, there are challenges, and there comes a time when you think there is no end in sight. But the great thing about persistence is exactly that - <em>persistence</em>.

Carry on driving your message. Continue to pursue your goal. I'm not saying it will work out in the end, but looking at one more picture might get you your logo, or continuing training for one more day might get your child potty trained. The simple act of trying just one more time might get you what you want or where you want to be. <em>What will you persist with today?</em>