---
ID: 274
post_title: >
  Life is quite a juggling act. These
  simple tools could help you.
author: Terence Brown
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: https://trnc.co/juggle/
published: true
post_date: 2016-03-08 20:59:46
---
As a freelancer trying to build a business on the side while still working a full-time job is tough. Don’t forget my loving wife, my two young, boisterous boys, maintaining a social life, as well as personal development.

It’s quite a juggling act.

How does one do it?

That’s a difficult one to answer. All I can tell you is how I’m currently dealing with it and hope it benefits you in some way.

<h2>Distracted attention and focused madness</h2>

This is what it feels like sometimes. I need to switch from freelance copywriter to IT Support Team Leader to Father to caring husband in a matter of minutes. A whirlwind of emotions and thoughts at any given time.

Don’t get me wrong. I’m <em>loving</em> it. It’s just that the act of juggling can get <em>exhausting</em> after a long week. Juggling my mindset, juggling communication, juggling family.

At some point, I’m going to have to stop juggling, but in order for me to build the future I want, this is a necessary part of the plan.

<h2>How I switch and shift between life’s lanes</h2>

<strong>Perseverance.</strong>
<strong>Doggedness.</strong>
<strong>Determination.</strong>

Seriously, though, I find that meticulously keeping a record of thoughts and tasks <em>really</em> helps. Anything that can go in a list, I jot it down - either in my notebook or digitally in <strong>Google Keep</strong>. I can’t remember how many times Google Keep has saved my ass, simply because I’d made a note at the time I needed to.

For bigger pieces of work, more planning is required, this is where something like <strong>Asana</strong> comes in. I’m not going to go into great detail in this post (maybe a future one). It’s great for forming projects and organising them as such.

Placing appointments in my <strong>calendar</strong> right after they are agreed takes away the stress of remembering a date and time (just remember to review your day every once in awhile).

When I take these thoughts and plans out my head and into something real, this frees up extra space in my mind for other areas of my life - mostly for the unplanned ones (like kids, traffic, and lazy Sunday afternoons).

By using these tools to compartmentalise any part of my life that can be organised, I feel more in control, and therefore more capable of maintaining this juggling act for a little while longer.

<h2>Quick recap (the short version)</h2>

I use the following tools to free up my thoughts that, in turn, allow me to juggle multiple life streams.

<strong>Google Keep</strong> - Quick notes of important thoughts or tasks as they happen
<strong>Asana</strong> - Larger organised pieces of work
<strong>Calendar</strong> - Schedule any future appointment
<strong>Notebook</strong> (yep, old skool) - Sometimes writing a thought down is needed and more effective.

<h2>Why juggle at all?</h2>

I know this way of life is not sustainable. It takes its toll on me physically and mentally, it completely screws my work/life balance, it takes precious time away from my family.

<em>So why do it?</em>

Because, in order to achieve mine and my wife’s success (we’re in this together), this juggling act is a necessary step. A hard and tumultuous one, but a necessary one.

If you’re finding your life way too complicated, with too many streams happening, try simplifying. Use the simple tools I mention in this post and see if it helps - <em>even a little</em>.

Let me know how you get on in the comments below. I’m always looking to improve, so if you have any recommendations, feel free to comment on that too.

<em>Photo credit: <a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/meryddian/823813803/">meryddian</a> via <a href="https://visualhunt.com">Visual hunt</a> / <a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/">CC BY-NC-ND</a></em>